>> Kyle Simpson: As a quick
overview of what to expect,
we're gonna start as I said with
a quick primer on programming concepts.
And we'll look at things like statements
and expressions and variables.
So, we'll fill in any gaps
that may exist for you there.
And then we're going to dive into the
three pillars of the JavaScript language.
This is only my opinion on how to
divide up the various features, but
I think these are the three main
areas that you'll spend focusing.
And just to set some expectation, these
are not things that you learn in one day.
You could take one of these units and
spend weeks or
even months,
potentially even years learning.
I'm 20 plus years at this,
I'm still learning bits and
pieces, and figuring these things out.
So really the best way to approach
this is not like I wanna,
get I wanna check something off in my and
spread sheet but
really I want to approach this is
a continual ever sort of learning thing.
You're starting out in the journey
to learn how to do programming,
learn how to do Java script ,and I
want you to embrace that as a constant
thing that you will journey
throughout your entire career.
So the three pillars
that we want to look at.
Number one,
we're gonna look at types and coercion.
And again, if those words
don't make sense, don't worry,
we'll talk exactly what
all those things mean.
But we're gonna look at scope and
scope enables us to talk about closures
which is a very critical feature.
And finally we're gonna look at
the this keyword and the prototypes.
And so if you've never heard of any of
those things that's great you're in
the right spot, maybe you have
heard of some of those things but
they're confusing or you've just seen
them used in a library or a framework or
on a stack overflow post.
You weren't really quite
sure what they meant.
We want to take a little bit
of a deeper dive into it.
And again, just as a reminder,
the book is where you go next,
after anything that you've learned
here in this course, go into the book.
It'll start to give you more of that
information and then it'll push you into
the rest of the book series, which dives
really deep into each of these topics.
Before we go on, though,
I want you to hear a little bit about
my thoughts on why we code,
which is that we code so
that the things that we write
are readable to human beings.
So let's dive into a primer on
basic programming concepts.
And here's a quick list of
the concepts that we wanna look at.
We'll look at one or two code examples for
each one of these to sort of illustrate
what does that mean and where does it
fit in the overall scheme of things?
Just like if you were an English major,
you need to learn about
the English language.
Well, we need to learn about
the process of speaking a language, and
we are gonna do so
in the context of JavaScript, obviously,
that's what this course is about.
But these are the basic things,
that you'll actually find in
any programming language.
So, if you have done a programming
language before, in your mind,
you'll think, I know, I used to do
a function this way in that language and
now, that's how I do that in JavaScript.
So look for those sorts of connections.
And if this is your first
programming language,
you'll be able to take these
as your foundation and
use those to learn another
programming language at some point.
So we'll look at values,
those are things like the number 42 or
the string hello world.
We'll look at operations,
things that we do like 42 + 1.
We'll look at variables which is
where we store those values and
then where we access them later.
Expressions and statements.
That's really again back to
the sort of English grammar.
An expression is kind of like
a phrase in a sentence and
a statement is a whole sentence
with a period at the end.
We'll look at decisions.
Deciding whether or not to do something or
to do something else.
We look at loops repeating things over and
over again.
And finally we look at functions.
These are the building blocks that
make up a program, make up the logic
the instructions that we give to
the computer through our programming.